README.md, before:

uIDS
====

An Intrusion Detection System (IDS) for micro-services.

Tutorial
========

A working tutorial for running uIDS on a simple web server may be found in the
`tutorial` directory.

uIDS Workflow
=============

uIDS is divided into three components:

1) A build environment for producing a binary suitable for modeling.

2) A micro execution framework for producing effect graphs for a container's binary.

3) The microservice-aware intrusion detection system (MIDS) for enforcing these
   effect graphs over lightweight container telemetry provided by SysFlow.

Build Environment
=================

By default, this image comes with a build environment that allows an analyst to
produce a binary for micro execution and measure the code coverage of the
program's test suite.

Generating Effect Graphs
========================

In order to produce an effect graph for a given binary, an analyst may place a
binary produced by the built in build environment at a location that the micro
execution framework may access. This will typically be a folder that contains a
container entrypoint, a filesystem that represents the container image, and a
corpus of test cases that uIDS can use to produce to micro-execute the binary.

Micro-executing a given entrypoint will naturally require the program to
utilize external library dependencies.  Instead of micro-executing these
dependencies directly, uIDS makes use of BAP's ability to abstract external
functions using either the Primus LISP interpreter or utilizing the OCaml
runtime. The current implementation of uIDS attempts to provide a reasonable
amount of the Standard C Library to support obtaining the effect graphs of a
container entrypoint. Should an analyst need to extend the given ABI with a
specific function, they have two options. They can either implement the
function in Primus LISP or in OCaml. The former is desirable if the function
can be represented as a simple transformation of the input or some machine
state, such as performing some simple computation over memory, or updating the
attribute given in a struct. The LISP dialect present in Primus can be thought
of as a functional interface for manipulating machine state, a program can
define loops, perform simple machine arithmetic, and alter arbitrary memory in
the Primus Machine.  For example, the following LISP function computes the nth
fibonacci number and stores the result into a pointer given as an argument.

    (defun fibonacci (n result)
      (let ((i 0)
            (j 1))
           (while (> n 0)
              (let ((t i))
                (set i j)
                (set j (+ t j)))
              (decr n))
            (write-word int result i)))

Implementing complex data-structures and algorithms in this environment may be
too cumbersome, at which point it can be convenient to utilize the
functionality present in the OCaml runtime to implement a function. Primus
allows plugin authors to extend the functionality of the LISP interpreter by
adding individual functions that LISP programs may call. This is helpful for
providing the LISP interpreter visibility into the filesystem or for providing
abstractions for network connections or complex functionality. Each of these
functions is backed by a corresponding OCaml function run by the LISP
interpreter. For example, modeling a web server will likely require some
regular expression matching in order to select the location to route individual
requests given as test cases. In the following example, we embed a new function
into the Primus LISP interpreter that checks whether a given string matches a
regular expression pattern using the popular Re2 regular expression matching
library. Observe that the OCaml code must first lift the strings given into
memory into OCaml strings since Primus LISP, like C, has no notion of strings
as first class values. The following snippet defines a new function in the LISP
interpreter.

    def "uids-ocaml-regex-match"
        (tuple [a; b] @-> bool)
        (module RegexMatch)
          {|(uids-ocaml-regex-match PATTERN S) checks whether s matches a given pattern. |}

and the following module implements a naive form of regular expression
matching. Observe that the run function is executed each time a LISP program
invokes the `uids-ocaml-regex-match` function.

    module RegexMatch (Machine : Primus.Machine.S) = struct
      [@@@warning "-P"]

      let addr_width =
        Machine.arch >>| Arch.addr_size >>| Size.in_bits
      let value_of_int x = addr_width >>= fun w -> Value.of_word (Bitvector.of_int ~width:w x)

      let run [pattern;s] =
        let wpattern = Value.to_word pattern in
        let ws = Value.to_word s in
        string_of_addr wpattern
        >>= fun pattern' ->
        string_of_addr ws >>= fun s' ->
        let re = Re2.create_exn pattern' in
        Re2.matches re str
    end

Note that Primus' ability to introspect into the binary's machine architecture
allows one to implement one ABI that may be reused across different instruction
set architectures.

Microservice-Aware Intrusion Detection System (MIDS)
====================================================

Once an analyst obtains an effect graph for a given binary, an operator can
provide the graph to a MIDS for detecting possible intrusions in running
containers.

Commit message:

Improve ABI, debug issues with interacting with filesystem.

README.md, after:

uIDS
====

An Intrusion Detection System (IDS) for micro-services.

Tutorial
========

A working tutorial for running uIDS on a simple web server may be found in the
`tutorial` directory.

uIDS Workflow
=============

uIDS is divided into three components:

1) A build environment for producing a binary suitable for modeling.

2) A micro execution framework for producing effect graphs for a container's binary.

3) The microservice-aware intrusion detection system (MIDS) for enforcing these
   effect graphs over lightweight container telemetry provided by SysFlow.

Build Environment
=================

By default, this image comes with a build environment that allows an analyst to
produce a binary for micro execution and measure the code coverage achieved by the
program's test suite.

It can be helpful to use the `uIDS` docker image to build a given source tree
in order to produce a binary that can be modelled. Suppose your project is
given in the `src` directory. You can mount the directory within the `uIDS`
container and build your project with the following.

    docker run -e CFLAGS="-fno-stack-protector -fcf-protection=none" -e LDFLAGS="-L /build/uids/ -l:uids.so" -u $(id -u) -it -v $PWD:/host -w /host --entrypoint make sysflowtelemetry/uids:latest

This command assumes that your project uses CFLAGS and LDFLAGS to customize the
build of your project in a Makefile. You can always extend or alter the default
uIDS image to embed these flags however it may work for your project.

Generating Effect Graphs
========================

In order to produce an effect graph for a given binary, an analyst may place a
binary produced by the built in build environment at a location that the micro
execution framework may access. This will typically be a folder that contains a
container entrypoint, a filesystem that represents the container image, and a
corpus of test cases that uIDS can use to produce to micro-execute the binary.

Micro-executing a given entrypoint will naturally require the program to
utilize external library dependencies.  Instead of micro-executing these
dependencies directly, uIDS makes use of BAP's ability to abstract external
functions using either the Primus LISP interpreter or utilizing the OCaml
runtime. The current implementation of uIDS attempts to provide a reasonable
amount of the Standard C Library to support obtaining the effect graphs of a
container entrypoint. Should an analyst need to extend the given ABI with a
specific function, they have two options. They can either implement the
function in Primus LISP or in OCaml. The former is desirable if the function
can be represented as a simple transformation of the input or some machine
state, such as performing some simple computation over memory, or updating the
attribute given in a struct. The LISP dialect present in Primus can be thought
of as a functional interface for manipulating machine state, a program can
define loops, perform simple machine arithmetic, and alter arbitrary memory in
the Primus Machine.  For example, the following LISP function computes the nth
fibonacci number and stores the result into a pointer given as an argument.

    (defun fibonacci (n result)
      (let ((i 0)
            (j 1))
           (while (> n 0)
              (let ((t i))
                (set i j)
                (set j (+ t j)))
              (decr n))
            (write-word int result i)))

Implementing complex data-structures and algorithms in this environment may be
too cumbersome, at which point it can be convenient to utilize the
functionality present in the OCaml runtime to implement a function. Primus
allows plugin authors to extend the functionality of the LISP interpreter by
adding individual functions that LISP programs may call. This is helpful for
providing the LISP interpreter visibility into the filesystem or for providing
abstractions for network connections or complex functionality. Each of these
functions is backed by a corresponding OCaml function run by the LISP
interpreter. For example, modeling a web server will likely require some
regular expression matching in order to select the location to route individual
requests given as test cases. In the following example, we embed a new function
into the Primus LISP interpreter that checks whether a given string matches a
regular expression pattern using the popular Re2 regular expression matching
library. Observe that the OCaml code must first lift the strings given into
memory into OCaml strings since Primus LISP, like C, has no notion of strings
as first class values. The following snippet defines a new function in the LISP
interpreter.

    def "uids-ocaml-regex-match"
        (tuple [a; b] @-> bool)
        (module RegexMatch)
          {|(uids-ocaml-regex-match PATTERN S) checks whether s matches a given pattern. |}

and the following module implements a naive form of regular expression
matching. Observe that the run function is executed each time a LISP program
invokes the `uids-ocaml-regex-match` function.

    module RegexMatch (Machine : Primus.Machine.S) = struct
      [@@@warning "-P"]

      let addr_width =
        Machine.arch >>| Arch.addr_size >>| Size.in_bits
      let value_of_int x = addr_width >>= fun w -> Value.of_word (Bitvector.of_int ~width:w x)

      let run [pattern;s] =
        let wpattern = Value.to_word pattern in
        let ws = Value.to_word s in
        string_of_addr wpattern
        >>= fun pattern' ->
        string_of_addr ws >>= fun s' ->
        let re = Re2.create_exn pattern' in
        Re2.matches re str
    end

Note that Primus' ability to introspect into the binary's machine architecture
allows one to implement one ABI that may be reused across different instruction
set architectures.

Microservice-Aware Intrusion Detection System (MIDS)
====================================================

Once an analyst obtains an effect graph for a given binary, an operator can
provide the graph to a MIDS for detecting possible intrusions in running
containers.
