sysmodel/README.md, before:

sysmodel
========

Derive process behavior models from application binaries.

Perform a `bap` pass over a binary. For every dependency, fork and run a bap
pass on the dependency, and communicate the nodes that make the frontier to the
child bap passes.

For every child bap process, return its intermediate result and use
it to aggregate the final result.

For the process behavior model, return the graphlette given in the dependency's
relevant functions.

For estimating capabilities, return the system calls given in the dependency's
relevant functions.

IPC between `bap` instances can be accomplished using ocaml-zmq. (Use lwt)

Running Passes
==============

Traversing a call graph with BAP from an entrypoint:

    bap binary --pass cg --cg-entrypoint "@main"


Experiments
===========

Comparing the Call Graph Generated by BAP using LLVM's Call Graph as Ground Truth.

    # Generate a Call Graph from a C file

    callgraph ./artifacts/server.c

    # Compare a Call Graph Generated by LLVM
    bap ./artifacts/server --pass cg --cg-dotfile ./callgraph.dot



Resources
=========

- Why is there an "external node" in LLVM's call graph?

  https://llvm.org/doxygen/CallGraph_8h_source.html

Commit message:

Add code that stores the model in a global context.

sysmodel/README.md, after:

sysmodel
========

Derive process behavior models from application binaries.

Perform a `bap` pass over a binary. For every dependency, fork and run a bap
pass on the dependency, and communicate the nodes that make the frontier to the
child bap passes.

For every child bap process, return its intermediate result and use
it to aggregate the final result.

For the process behavior model, return the graphlette given in the dependency's
relevant functions.

For estimating capabilities, return the system calls given in the dependency's
relevant functions.

IPC between `bap` instances can be accomplished using ocaml-zmq. (Use lwt)

Running Passes
==============

Traversing a call graph with BAP from an entrypoint:

    bap binary --pass cg --cg-entrypoint "@main"


Experiments
===========

Comparing the Call Graph Generated by BAP using LLVM's Call Graph as Ground Truth.

    # Generate a Call Graph from a C file

    callgraph ./artifacts/server.c

    # Compare a Call Graph Generated by LLVM
    bap ./artifacts/server --pass cg --cg-dotfile ./callgraph.dot

Important Directories
=====================

## passes

BAP passes for our analysis. The `cg` pass implements our evaluation of BAP's
ability to generate Call Graphs.

## plugins

The main BAP plugin that collects system calls through micro-execution.

Resources
=========

- Why is there an "external node" in LLVM's call graph?

  https://llvm.org/doxygen/CallGraph_8h_source.html
